created: 2021-06-19T06:03:05 (UTC -04:00)
tags: []
source: https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2021/06/world-bank-slams- bitcoin -declines-to-help-el-salvadors-cryptocurrency-plan/
author: Tim De Chant
    -  Jun 17, 2021 3:39 pm UTC
World  Bank slams  bitcoin , declines to help El Salvador’s cryptocurrency plan | Ars Technica
Excerpt
Bank faults  bitcoin 's “environmental and transparency shortcomings.”
Bitcoin   battle  —
Bank faults  bitcoin 's “environmental and transparency shortcomings.”
Aurich Lawson | Getty Images
Last week, El Salvador’s  government  passed a law to accept  bitcoin  as legal tender alongside the US dollar. The country receives $6 billion in remittances per year—nearly a quarter of its gross domestic product—and the hope is that  bitcoin ’s lower transaction costs could boost that amount by a few percentage points.
The move was first proposed by the country’s president, Nayib Bukele, who said he hoped that in addition to facilitating lower remittance fees, the  bitcoin  plan would attract investment and provide an avenue for savings for residents, about 70 percent of whom are unbanked. (What Bukele didn’t say, but what Bloomberg has reported, is that he and members of his political party have owned  bitcoin  for years.)
Adding the cryptocurrency to the roster isn’t a simple task, though, and the new law gives the country just three months to roll the plan out nationwide. No country has ever used  bitcoin  or any other cryptocurrency as legal tender, and challenges abound. To address those concerns, El Salvador turned to the  World  Bank and the International Monetary Fund for assistance; the latter is currently considering a $1.3 billion financing request from the country.
The  IMF  offered a guarded assessment of El Salvador’s  bitcoin  move, with spokesperson Gerry Rice saying at a press briefing, “Adoption of  bitcoin  as legal tender raises a number of macroeconomic, financial, and legal issues that require very careful analysis.”
The  World  Bank was less generous. “We are committed to helping El Salvador in numerous ways, including for currency transparency and regulatory processes,” a  World  Bank spokesperson told  Reuters . “While the  government  did approach us for assistance on  bitcoin , this is not something the  World  Bank can support given the environmental and transparency shortcomings.”
In other words,  bitcoin ’s energy demands and its ease of use in money laundering, tax evasion, and other illegal schemes makes the cryptocurrency a no-go in the eyes of the  World  Bank.
Technical challenges
There are other reasons the  World  Bank and the  IMF  may be skeptical of El Salvador’s bid to use  bitcoin . The technical challenges aren’t insignificant. For one,  bitcoin ’s price relative to the dollar has been highly volatile. How do you price a dozen eggs in  bitcoin  if the price of  bitcoin   flu ctuates 10 percent in a few hours? Perhaps the answer is that you don’t. In the “ Bitcoin  Beach” of El Zonte, El Salvador, where  bitcoin  use is relatively widespread, merchants still price their goods in dollars, and the exchange rate is set at the time of purchase. That approach appears to be what the El Salvadoran  government  is taking, but it treats  bitcoin  more as a token than a true currency.
Second,  bitcoin  transactions can be notoriously slow. Each must be verified by miners, and miners only process blocks of transactions, not individual ones. So for a purchase in  bitcoin  to be confirmed, both parties have to wait for the block to be completed. Currently, one block takes about 10 minutes to be added to the  blockchain , though in El Zonte, one merchant said transactions are confirmed in her local app in about two minutes. Various projects are working to improve the transaction speed, but they’re not part of  bitcoin  proper yet.
Lastly, while  bitcoin  transactions could be inexpensive or even free, they do tend to have a fee attached to them. Fees aren’t required, but they do entice miners to verify a transaction. Plus, should Salvadorans want to exchange their  bitcoin  for dollars, there are charges associated with that, too. So while the move could save on remittance fees, which run about 3 percent, the system won’t be costless.
El Salvador could still pull off the move without help from the  World  Bank or the  IMF , but it will be that much more challenging. And the clock is ticking. Unless businesses don’t have access to the technology required, they’ll have to accept  bitcoin  by  September  7, 2021.
